well let's take a closer look at the
ceasefire proposal that's actually being
discussed the first phase would be a
temporary truce during which Hamas would
release women the elderly and wounded
captives in exchange for Palestinians
held in Israeli prisons the second phase
would include a permanent end to the
hostilities and the release of all
remaining Israeli captives and the third
phase would be the Reconstruction of
Gaza and the return of the remains of
any deceased captives to
Israel let's get more on this with the
Hamas spokesman Osama ham and good to
have you back on the show what is your
assessment of these talks so
far well thank you for having me um I
have to start by saying till now we
didn't hear any clear information about
what had happened
yesterday it seems to me that till now
the the mediators are still talking to
the Israeli side the same way which had
happened in last May in last may I have
to remind everyone that we have agreed
on the suggestion of the mediators and
after three weeks the Israelis have said
no three weeks of negotiations with the
Israelis the outcome was negative till
now the mediators are talking about
Bridging the gaps but it's clear that
the gaps from the Israeli side they are
adding more conditions they are talking
about some new issues which I believe
they are trying to undermine the process
anyway till now we did didn't hear any
positive signs from the mediators we
hope to hear those signs because our
position is still clear if we were
invited to participate for the executive
Implement for the suggestions we will do
that otherwise we don't need more negot
well I did want to ask you why you're
relying on mediators to give you
information about these talks not
sending a delegation yourself
well this this this is the process it's
it's how it happened they talk to the
Israelis and they come back to talk to
Hamas if there was a positive reaction
from the Israeli side till now it seems
that there was no positive acceptance
from the Israeli side we have talked to
the mediators early three days before
yesterday and we told them if there was
a clear answer from the Israelis that
they accept your mediation they accept
your proposal we are ready to
participate it seems to me till now the
the Israelis they didn't say yes yet how
much how much leeway are you willing to
give we've seen the Israeli side
Netanyahu particularly push for Israeli
control of the Philadelphia Corridor to
keep checkpoints inside Gaza are these
issues that Hamas is willing to give
ground
on well it was clear from for we have
received guarantees from the American
side through the mediators the brothers
in qar and Egypt that the Israeli
withdrawal will be complete from Gaza
including Philadelphia X and RAF Cross
Point H from our side our position is
clear we want an a complete Israeli
withdrawal and according to the maps
which which is supposed to be included
to the agreement
there will be no Israeli presence on
Philadelphia and cring point and we have
received also a clear position from the
Egyptian side that they will not accept
the Israeli presence anymore if there
was a ceasefire this is the first round
of talks that has taken place without
Ismail hania he was the chief negotiator
of course he was
assassinated uh in tan how does that
complicate efforts for Hamas at the
table well uh let me start by saying
that the assassination of was a clear
sign from Israeli side especially nyaho
that he's not willing to have a CE fire
Arrangement and he's trying to undermine
the process in different ways uh our
decision was to go forward in the
negotiations and to to achieve the goal
the ceasefire the Israeli withdrawal and
the the reform reconstruction of
G now yir is the head of Hamas and he
was following the negotiations through
the period of the presence of brother is
Han so I believe as principles there is
no changes in Hamas position and the
same delegation is following up the
negotiations and they will continue
their work under the supervision of hen
who
was involved all the time about the
negotiations does Hamas accept that now
is the time for a ceasefire and now is
the time for compromise difficult
compromises given that the death toll in
Gaza has passed
40,000 people an astonishing toll taken
on the Gaza
population well I have to remind the
everyone that uh the 40,000 people who
were killed they are our own people so
we and
secondly from uh after the the Paris
initiative we have a clear position
welcoming this initiative and showing
our willing to have a a
ceasefire all the time the one the side
who was undermining the process was the
Israeli side
we have accepted the
initiative of the mediators in April the
second initiative in May and the third
initiative in June and every time the
Israelis face that with massacres
killing hundreds of Palestinians
assassinations and the new conditions
everyone understand especially the
mediators that the side who's
undermining the process still now is the
Israelis and they are not showing a real
will to accept a ceas fair and I hope
also to see the American position making
the needed pressure on the Israeli side
who's counting on the American position
and and still undermining the process
okay Asama Hamden good to speak to you
thank you very much for taking the time
to join us here on Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer